<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Johannes Keyser <johannes.keyser@uni-hamburg.de>
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
-->

# c2dparseR

> [!warning]
> _This is work in progress, please tread with care._

Idea: An R package to parse the `.c2d` file format from Cyclus2 ergometers.

## Description

The `c2dparseR` package aims to provide tools for working with `.c2d` files generated by [Cyclus2 cycling ergometers](https://www.cyclus2.com/en/) by RBM elektronik-automation GmbH.
Technically, `.c2d` files are just zipped XML files.

## Advantages

Importing Cyclus2 data from their native `.c2d` file format has several advantages compared to dealing with CSV exported files.

- Saving all data: Only `.c2d` files contain all relevant information:
  - The `.c2d` files include all information, such as bike settings, which are impossible to export into the CSV format.
  - Depending on the export settings, CSV export may not contain all data of (later) interest, or lack precision of included data.
- Simpler procedure: No need to save two kinds of files for each data recording, resulting in fewer error-prone steps.
- Interoperability over time and across labs: Agreeing on an exported format takes time and effort, and may lead to a split with former recorded data.
  Also, other labs that use Cyclus2 will have other export settings.
  In contrast, `.c2d` files are the same across all labs.

## Roadmap

- Implement core import of all useful `.c2d` information into R data structures.
- Prepare for installation from GitLab/GitHub as initial distribution channels.
- Add R documentation.
- Implement data validation and error handling.
- Prepare for installation from CRAN.
- Figure out if measurement units should be added to R data structures.
- Figure out export into BIDS format; maybe using an existing package?
- Add example data sets where the consent into this data donation is clarified.
- Write tests against the example data sets.

## Example data

Currently, there are no example data included in this project.
Please DO NOT include data into this Git repo, unless you have explicit consent from the data owner.

## Contributing

TODO

## Authors

- Johannes Keyser, <johannes.keyser@uni-hamburg.de>

## Licensing

EUPL-1.2 for code and CC0-1.0 for anything else, see folder [LICENSES](LICENSES).
